<html xmlns:e="http://exam.extension.io" xmlns:cc="http://www.concordion.org/2007/concordion">
<body>
<h1>"Before" examples</h1>

<blockquote class="blockquote blockquote-custom bg-white p-5 shadow rounded">
    <i class="fas fa-quote-left fa-lg text-info me-2"> </i>
    <p class="mb-0 mt-2">
        <em>
            A before example is intended to be used for functionality required by each example
            <strong>where adding it to the specification improves the communication aspect for the reader</strong>.
        </em>
    </p>
    <footer class="blockquote-footer pt-1 mt-1">
        <a href="https://concordion.org/instrumenting/java/html/#before-examples">https://concordion.org/instrumenting/java/html/#before-examples</a>
    </footer>
</blockquote>

<p>
    There are two ways of specifying <i>before-all-examples</i> behavior.
</p>

<h2>Concordion "before"</h2>

<p>
    As <code>e:example</code> command effectively is the very same concordion example hence it supports the <a href="https://concordion.org/instrumenting/java/html/#before-examples">before examples</a>
    concordion feature.
</p>
<e:example name="before" print="true">
    The variable <code>fromConcordionBefore</code> will be reset
    to <code e:set="#fromConcordionBefore = now()">{{now "HH:mm:ss.SSS"}}</code> before each example.
</e:example>

<p>
    In the following <var>example 1</var> the <code>fromConcordionBefore</code> variable is available but <code>fromExamBefore</code> is not.
</p>
<e:example name="example 1">
    Echo <code>fromConcordionBefore</code>: <code cc:echo="#fromConcordionBefore"/>
    <br/>
    Echo <code>fromExamBefore</code>: <code cc:echo="#fromExamBefore"/>
</e:example>

<h2>Exam "before"</h2>

<p>
    Main difference from concordion <var>before</var> is that that content of a <code>e:before-each</code> command
    will be effectively inlined in the beginning of each <strong>subsequent</strong> example.
</p>
<p>
    For example let's (re)set <code>fromExamBefore</code> variable before each example.
</p>
<e:before-each print="true">
    The variable <code>fromExamBefore</code> will be reset to <code e:set="#fromExamBefore">{{now "HH:mm:ss.SSS"}}</code>
    before each example.
</e:before-each>

<p>
    Both variables are available, <code>e:before-each</code> block embedded at the beginning of the each subsequent example.
</p>
<e:example name="example 2">
    Echo <code>fromConcordionBefore</code>: <code cc:echo="#fromConcordionBefore"/>
    <br/>
    Echo <code>fromExamBefore</code>: <code cc:echo="#fromExamBefore"/>
</e:example>

<e:example name="example 3">
    Echo <code>fromConcordionBefore</code>: <code cc:echo="#fromConcordionBefore"/>
    <br/>
    Echo <code>fromExamBefore</code>: <code cc:echo="#fromExamBefore"/>
</e:example>

</body>
</html>